## Language Elements

#### Instructions and Programs

A computer's hardware system typically consists of five major components, including: an operator, a controller, a memory, an input device, and an output device. Among them, the operator and controller are put together as what we usually call the central processor, its function is to execute various arithmetic and control instructions and process the data in the computer software. What we usually call a program is actually a collection of instructions. Our program organizes a series of instructions in a way that is used to control the computer to do what we want it to do. The computers we use most of today, although their components work more and more sophisticated, and the processing power is more and more powerful, but in essence it still belongs to ["von Neumann structure"] (https:// Zh.wikipedia. Computers with org/wiki/%E5%86%AF%C2%B7%E8%AF%BA%E4%BC%8A%E6%9B%BC%E7%BB%93%E6%9E%84). The "von Neumann structure" has two key points. One is to separate the storage device from the central processor, and the other is to encode the data in binary mode. Binary is a kind of "every two in one" counting method. There is no substantial difference between the counting method of "ten and ten in one" used by humans. Humans use decimal because they have ten fingers (because when counting Ten fingers can only be used after they have been used up. Of course, there are exceptions to everything. The Mayans may have counted their toes because of their bare feet for a long time, so they used the twenty-digit counting method. Under the guidance of the counting method, the Maya calendar is different from the calendar we usually use. According to the Maya calendar, 2012 is the last year of the so-called “Sun Ji”, and 2013 is new. At the beginning of the "Sun Ji", this matter was later misrepresented as a ridiculous way of saying that "2012 is the end of the world that the Maya predicted". Today we can boldly speculate that the reason why the Mayan civilization is slow to develop is also estimated. Related to the use of hexadecimal). For computers, binary is the easiest to implement on physical devices (high voltage means 1, low voltage means 0), so the binary is used in the "von Neumann structure" computer. Although we don't need every programmer to work in binary way, we understand the binary and its conversion relationship with the decimals in our lives, and the binary and octal and hexadecimal conversions. necessary. If you are not familiar with this, you can use [Wikipedia] (https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%BA%8C%E8%BF%9B%E5%88%B6) or [Baidu Encyclopedia] (https://baike.baidu.com) popular science.

> Tip: Recent research on ** quantum computers** has been overturned, and quantum computers use quantum mechanics to perform operations using quantum telemetry to convey information. In June 2018, Intel announced the development of a new quantum chip and passed the test in an environment close to absolute zero; in January 2019, IBM released the first commercial quantum computer to the world.

### Variables and types

In programming, a variable is a vector that stores data. A variable in a computer is a piece of memory that actually exists or is stored in memory. The value of the variable can be read and modified, which is the basis of all calculations and controls. There are many types of data that a computer can process. In addition to numerical values, it can process various data such as text, graphics, audio, video, etc., so different data needs to define different storage types. There are many types of data in Python, and it also allows us to customize new data types (as we'll see later). Let's start with a few common data types.

- Integer: Python can handle integers of any size (Python 2.x has both int and long integers, but this distinction doesn't make much sense to Python, so in Python 3.x integers only int This one), and supports binary (such as `0b100`, converted to decimal is 4), octal (such as `0o100`, converted to decimal is 64), decimal (`100`) and hexadecimal (`0x100 `, converted to decimal is 256) representation.
- Floating point type: Floating point number is also a decimal number. It is called floating point number because the decimal point position of a floating point number is variable according to scientific notation. The floating point number is not only mathematically written (such as `123.456`). In addition to supporting scientific notation (such as `1.23456e2`).
- String: Strings are any text enclosed in single or double quotes, such as `'hello'` and `"hello"`, as well as strings, raw string representations, byte string representations, Unicode string notation, and can be written in multiple lines (starting with three single quotes or three double quotes, three single quotes or three double quotes).
- Boolean: Boolean values ​​are only `True`, `False`, either `True` or `False`. In Python, you can use `True`, `False` to represent Boolean values ​​(please note) The case can also be calculated by Boolean operations (for example, `3 < 5` will produce a Boolean value of `True`, and `2 == 1` will produce a Boolean value `False`).
- Plural type: The shape is like `3+5j`, which is the same as the mathematical plural representation. The only difference is that the imaginary part of `i` is replaced by `j`.

#### Variable naming

For each variable we need to give it a name, just as each of us has its own loud name. In Python, variable naming needs to follow the following non-hard rules that must adhere to hard rules and strongly recommended compliance.

- Hard rules:
  - Variable names consist of letters (generalized Unicode characters, excluding special characters), numbers, and underscores, and numbers cannot begin.
  - Case sensitive (the uppercase `a` and lowercase `A` are two different variables).
  - Don't conflict with keywords (words with special meanings, as discussed later) and system reserved words (such as functions, modules, etc.).
- PEP 8 requirements:
  - Spell in lowercase letters and connect multiple words with underscores.
  - Protected instance properties begin with a single underscore (explained later).
  - Private instance properties start with two underscores (described later).

Of course, as a professional programmer, it is also important to name the variables (in fact, all identifiers).

#### Use of variables

The following is a few examples to illustrate the type of variables and the use of variables.

```Python
"""
Use variables to save data and perform arithmetic operations

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Wei
"""

a = 321
b = 123
Print(a + b)
Print(a - b)
Print(a * b)
Print(a / b)
Print(a // b)
Print(a % b)
Print(a ** b)
```

```Python
"""
Use the input() function to get keyboard input
Type conversion using int()
Format the output string with a placeholder

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Wei
"""

a = int(input('a = '))
b = int(input('b = '))
Print('%d + %d = %d' % (a, b, a + b))
Print('%d - %d = %d' % (a, b, a - b))
Print('%d * %d = %d' % (a, b, a * b))
Print('%d / %d = %f' % (a, b, a / b))
Print('%d // %d = %d' % (a, b, a // b))
Print('%d %% %d = %d' % (a, b, a % b))
Print('%d ** %d = %d' % (a, b, a ** b))
```

```Python
"""
Check the type of the variable with type()

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Wei
Date: 2018-02-27
"""

a = 100
b = 12.345
c = 1 + 5j
d = 'hello, world'
e = True
Print(type(a))
Print(type(b))
Print(type(c))
Print(type(d))
Print(type(e))
```

You can use Python's built-in functions when converting variable types (accurately, the functions listed below are not really functions, but the constructors for creating objects that we will talk about later).

- `int()`: Converts a value or string to an integer, which can be specified in hexadecimal.
- `float()`: Convert a string to a floating point number.
- `str()`: Converts the specified object to a string form, specifying the encoding.
- `chr()`: Converts an integer to the string (one character) corresponding to the encoding.
- `ord()`: Converts a string (a character) to the corresponding encoding (integer).

### Operator

Python supports a variety of operators. The following table lists all the operators in order of priority from high to low, and we will use them one after another.

| Operator | Description |
| ------------------------------------------------- ----------- | ------------------------------ |
| `[]` `[:]` | Subscript, Slice |
| `**` | Index |
| `~` `+` `-` | Bitwise negation, plus or minus sign |
| `*` `/` `%` `//` | Multiply, divide, modulo, divisible |
| `+` `-` | Add, subtract |
| `>>` `<<` | Right shift, left shift |
| `&` | Bitwise and |
| `^` `\|` | Bitwise XOR, Bitwise or |
| `<=` `<` `>` `==` | Less than or equal to, less than, greater than, greater than or equal |
| `==` `!=` | equals, does not equal |
| `is` `is not` | Identity Operator |
| `in` `not in` | member operator |
| `not` `or` `and` | Logical Operators |
| `=` `+=` `-=` `*=` `/=` `%=` `//=` `**=` `&=` `|=` `^=` `>>= ` `<<=` | (composite) assignment operator |

>**Note: ** In actual development, if you don't know the priority of the operator, you can use parentheses to ensure the order of execution of the operation.

The following example demonstrates the use of operators.

```Python
"""
Use of operators

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Wei
"""

a = 5
b = 10
c = 3
d = 4
e = 5
a += b
a -= c
a *= d
a /= e
Print("a = ", a)

Flag1 = 3 > 2
Flag2 = 2 < 1
Flag3 = flag1 and flag2
Flag4 = flag1 or flag2
Flag5 = not flag1
Print("flag1 = ", flag1)
Print("flag2 = ", flag2)
Print("flag3 = ", flag3)
Print("flag4 = ", flag4)
Print("flag5 = ", flag5)
Print(flag1 is True)
Print(flag2 is not False)
```

### Exercise

#### Exercise 1: Fahrenheit temperature to Celsius.

```Python
"""
Convert Fahrenheit to Celsius
F = 1.8C + 32

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Wei
"""

f = float(input('Please enter Fahrenheit: '))
c = (f - 32) / 1.8
Print('%.1fFahrenheit = %.1f Celsius' % (f, c))
```

#### Exercise 2: Enter the radius of the circle to calculate the perimeter and area.

```Python
"""
Enter the radius to calculate the perimeter and area of ​​the circle

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Wei
"""

Import math

Radius = float(input('Please enter the radius of the circle: '))
Perimeter = 2 * math.pi * radius
Area = math.pi * radius * radius
Print('Circumference: %.2f' % perimeter)
Print('area: %.2f' % area)
```

#### Exercise 3: Enter the year to determine whether it is a leap year.

```Python
"""
Enter the year if it is a leap year output True or output False

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Wei
"""

Year = int(input('Please enter the year: '))
# If the code is too long to write in a line, it is not easy to read. You can use \ or () to fold
Is_leap = (year % 4 == 0 and year % 100 != 0 or
           Year % 400 == 0)
Print(is_leap)
```

